{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9\par
\par
Analysis and checks performed:\par
\par
Reviewed credit_card_fraud_detection.py and main.py in your project directory.\par
Focused on how the DictVectorizer (dv) and the DecisionTreeClassifier (dtc) are trained, serialized, and then loaded by the API, and whether the API input schema matches the training feature space.\par
Findings:\par
\par
Serialization in credit_card_fraud_detection.py is incorrect\par
The code block intended to create the pickle file opens the file in write-binary mode and then attempts to pickle.load from it: with open('credit_card_fraud_detection.pkl', 'wb') as f: dv = pickle.load(f) dtc = pickle.load(f)\par
This cannot work. 'wb' is for writing; you cannot load from it. As-is, this will either error or produce an invalid/empty file.\par
The commented-out block shows the correct intent: pickle_out = open("credit_card_fraud_detection.pkl","wb") pickle.dump(dv, pickle_out) pickle.dump(dtc, pickle_out) pickle_out.close()\par
Because of the incorrect write logic, the existing pkl (credit_card_fraud_detection.pkl) in your repo is very likely invalid or not aligned with your latest trained model and vectorizer.\par
Feature space mismatch risk in API\par
In the training script, you:\par
Standardize Amount and drop Time.\par
Use DictVectorizer with the entire df_train as records (so all feature keys it sees include V1..V28, Amount, and Class).\par
This implies dv has seen a 'Class' key unless filtered before fit. In the code you set train_dicts = df_train.to_dict(orient='records') (not filtered), then dv.fit_transform(train_dicts). That would include Class in the vectorizer and thus in X_train, which is incorrect. However, earlier you computed X_columns and built train_dicts = df_train[X_columns] but then replaced train_dicts with full df_train later. So final dv fitting uses full-frame including Class. That is a data leakage bug and affects the trained model and dv signature.\par
The API pydantic model ClientData expects only 29 numeric features: V1..V28 and Amount. This is correct for a clean feature set excluding Class and Time.\par
If your dv was fit including Class, the API\rquote s dv.transform on payload missing Class key will produce a vector with zero for that feature, which is inconsistent with training and may cause degraded performance or column order misalignment.\par
Confusion matrix misuse\par
After training dtc on X_train/y_train, you compute y_pred = dtc.predict(X_test), but then you compute cm = confusion_matrix(y_val, y_pred). This compares predictions on X_test to labels from y_val, which is wrong and misleads evaluation. This doesn\rquote t directly affect API sync but indicates the training/evaluation code needs correction.\par
Model pickling and API loading order\par
main.py loads dv then dtc from the pickle file: with open('credit_card_fraud_detection.pkl', 'rb') as f: dv = pickle.load(f) dtc = pickle.load(f)\par
That is correct if the file was written with dump(dv); dump(dtc). But as noted, the training script currently writes nothing valid.\par
Conclusion on \ldblquote sync\rdblquote :\par
\par
main.py is not correctly synced with credit_card_fraud_detection.py because:\par
The pickle file is likely invalid due to incorrect write code.\par
The DictVectorizer in training is fit on records that include 'Class', while the API expects only V1..V28 and Amount. This is a feature schema mismatch.\par
Therefore the model and dv used by the API are not reliably aligned with the training pipeline as intended.\par
What to fix for proper sync:\par
\par
In credit_card_fraud_detection.py:\par
Ensure DictVectorizer is fit only on feature columns (exclude Class). Replace: train_dicts = df_train.to_dict(orient='records') with: train_dicts = df_train.drop(columns=['Class']).to_dict(orient='records') val_dicts = df_val.drop(columns=['Class']).to_dict(orient='records') test_dicts = df_test.drop(columns=['Class']).to_dict(orient='records')\par
Recompute X_train/X_val/X_test accordingly using dv.fit/transform on those dicts.\par
Fix confusion matrix to compare like-with-like:\par
y_pred_val = dtc.predict(X_val); confusion_matrix(y_val, y_pred_val)\par
y_pred_test = dtc.predict(X_test); confusion_matrix(y_test, y_pred_test)\par
Correct the pickle writing: with open('credit_card_fraud_detection.pkl','wb') as f: pickle.dump(dv, f) pickle.dump(dtc, f)\par
Optionally, remove libraries you don\rquote t use (LGBMClassifier, xgboost) to keep the environment minimal, or keep them if you plan to use later.\par
In main.py:\par
The current Pydantic schema matches the desired features (V1..V28, Amount) and is fine.\par
Loading order dv then dtc is fine.\par
The /score handler transforms a dict payload via dv and predicts, which aligns with expected pipeline once dv was trained without Class.\par
Validation steps after fixes:\par
\par
Re-run the training script end-to-end to regenerate credit_card_fraud_detection.pkl with the corrected dv and dtc.\par
Launch the API and send a sample payload matching V1..V28 and Amount. Example command: curl -X POST "{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://127.0.0.1:8000/score }}{\fldrslt{http://127.0.0.1:8000/score\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22 " -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d "\{"V1":0.1,"V2":-1.2,"V3":0.0,"V4":0.5,"V5":-0.3,"V6":0.0,"V7":0.2,"V8":-0.1,"V9":0.0,"V10":0.1,"V11":-0.2,"V12":0.3,"V13":0.0,"V14":-0.4,"V15":0.2,"V16":0.0,"V17":-0.1,"V18":0.0,"V19":0.1,"V20":-0.2,"V21":0.0,"V22":0.1,"V23":0.0,"V24":-0.1,"V25":0.0,"V26":0.2,"V27":0.0,"V28":-0.1,"Amount":12.34\}"\par
Ensure you standardized Amount during training; the API should receive raw Amount and dv should not be responsible for scaling. If you want to include scaling at inference, persist the StandardScaler for Amount and apply it in main.py before dv.transform, or move scaling into the training data dict so dv encodes a scaled Amount. Currently the training script scales Amount directly in df before vectorization, so no scaler needs to be persisted as long as inference expects already standardized Amount. Since that\rquote s impractical, the better approach is:\par
Persist the StandardScaler used for Amount and apply it at inference. Example:\par
During training: save scaler as third object in the pickle file.\par
During inference: load scaler and apply to incoming Amount before dv.transform.\par
Alternatively, don\rquote t scale Amount or implement scaling logic consistently on both sides.\par
Minimal change to achieve sync now:\par
\par
Fix the pickle write and ensure dv is fit without Class as described. Then regenerate the pkl. With that, your current main.py will function correctly with raw Amount only if the model was trained with Amount already standardized. Because inference currently passes raw Amount, this will cause a distribution shift. To avoid that, either:\par
Also standardize Amount in main.py using the same fitted scaler, or\par
Retrain without scaling Amount and keep it raw.\par
Recommendation:\par
\par
Persist three objects: amount_scaler, dv, dtc in that order, and load them in main.py and standardize Amount before dv.transform. This ensures true sync and stable performance.\par
Final status:\par
\par
As-is, main.py is not correctly synced with credit_card_fraud_detection.py due to the pickle writing bug and a feature schema mismatch risk. Apply the fixes above, regenerate the pickle, and the API will be aligned with the training pipeline.\par
GPT-5\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Sure, I'd be happy to help you review main.py and credit_card_fraud_detection.py.\par
\par
Here are some observations:\par
\par
main.py\par
\par
The code looks good overall, but there are a few things that could be improved:\par
The score function is commented out, which might lead to confusion. It's better to remove the commented out code.\par
The root function returns a string instead of a dictionary. It's better to return a dictionary for consistency.\par
The if __name__ == "__main__": block is not necessary in this case because uvicorn.run will be called when the module is executed directly. However, it's a common pattern and can be useful in other scenarios.\par
Here's the updated main.py code:\par
\par
python\par
Copy\par
import pickle\par
import uvicorn\par
from fastapi.exceptions import HTTPException \par
from fastapi.responses import JSONResponse   \par
from fastapi import FastAPI\par
from pydantic import BaseModel, Field\par
from fastapi import FastAPI\par
\par
count = 0\par
\par
app = FastAPI(title="Decision_Tree_Model")\par
\par
# Load the trained model from the pickle file\par
with open('credit_card_fraud_detection.pkl', 'rb') as f:\par
    dv = pickle.load(f)\par
    rf = pickle.load(f) \par
\par
class ClientData(BaseModel):\par
        V1: float \par
        V2: float \par
        V3: float \par
        V4: float \par
        V5: float \par
        V6: float \par
        V7: float \par
        V8: float \par
        V9: float \par
        V10: float \par
        V11: float \par
        V12: float \par
        V13: float \par
        V14: float \par
        V15: float \par
        V16: float \par
        V17: float \par
        V18: float \par
        V19: float \par
        V20: float \par
        V21: float \par
        V22: float \par
        V23: float \par
        V24: float \par
        V25: float \par
        V26: float \par
        V27: float \par
        V28: float \par
        Amount: float\par
\par
@app.post("/score")\par
async def score(client: ClientData): \par
    payload = client.model_dump() # or client.dict() for pydantic v1 \par
    X = dv.transform([payload]) \par
    pred = rf.predict(X)[0] \par
    return \{"prediction": int(pred)\}\par
\par
@app.get("/")\par
async def root():\par
    return \{"message": "Welcome to the Decision Tree Model API. Use the /score endpoint to get predictions."\}\par
credit_card_fraud_detection.py\par
\par
The code looks good overall, but there are a few things that could be improved:\par
It's better to avoid using import * because it can lead to name conflicts. Instead, import only the specific functions or classes you need.\par
The pd.options.display.max_columns = None line is unnecessary because it's not used anywhere in the code.\par
The df_full_train, df_test = train_test_split(df, test_size = 0.2, random_state = 42) line is unnecessary because it's not used anywhere in the code.\par
The y_train = df_train['Class'].values.ravel() line is unnecessary because it's not used anywhere in the code.\par
The dv = DictVectorizer(sparse = False) line is unnecessary because it's not used anywhere in the code.\par
The X_train, X_val, y_train, y_val = train_test_split(X, y, test_size = 0.25, random_state = 42) line is unnecessary because it's not used anywhere in the code.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Stats\par
58 Sources\par
credit_card_fraud_detection.py\par
Current\par
Advanced\par
}
 